in this lesson we're going to explore
the benefits and usage of azure resource
manager and actually explain what is an
azure resource now the azure we know
about today is really the v2 of azure
there was an initial azure service
manager-based azure version but it had a
lot of limitations i couldn't do very
granular control and roles i couldn't do
many things in parallel so it was hard
to do mass deployments there was a lot
of challenges with that so they
introduced this azure resource manager
this is built around the idea of
resource providers so if i think about
azure
as this big cloud service so we have
and it's actually built up of these
resource
providers that define all of the
different types of resource
that are available to us
if we were to jump over to the command
line for a second
we can quickly see well what are all of
if i do a get a z
resource
provider
we'll see there's a whole number of
different resource providers actually
available to us
well i can see things about support and
features and cost management and
commerce for example here we're seeing
oh there's a billing one
and it starts to talk about different
types of resource that are available to
us
one that might make more sense to us
is let's look at something like well if
we pick a particular provider namespace
let's look at microsoft dot compute
and we'll just care about the resource
types that are actually available in
microsoft dot
compute and what we'll see
is well okay this seems more familiar
if we look at what's within here we have
constructs like well hey look a virtual
machine
extensions for virtual machines the idea
of locations and vm sizes and run
commands
we'll see things like disks
we'll see shed vm images snapshots these
are all defined in the compute
resource provider
so within those it's defining all of the
different types of resources that
actually make up azure
so everything in azure is really its own
resource we looked before
at a resource group
and what we saw before was even for
something as basic as a virtual machine
a single vm
was actually made up of five different
resources we had the vm itself which was
its own resource
then there was a network interface
which was connected to a public ip that
itself was connected to a virtual
network which is in a different resource
group
it has a disk it has a network security
group for the network interface every
single one of those is its own resource
so if i was to just look at the nic so
even a network interface
it has its own access control
it has its own set of tags available to
it
it has its own activity log so actions
that happen at the azure resource
manager control plane
they're logged and actually tracked
so everything
has its own set of information its own
set of metadata
and the management layer
and the deployment layer well that is
the
azure
resource
manager
or arm
everything we do any interaction
is going through the azure resource
manager this is a restful endpoint so
we're typically talking web protocols to
this
so if i am sitting somewhere
and i'm sitting at a machine
it doesn't matter what i'm using if i'm
using the portal
if i'm using powershell and the az
module if i'm using the azcli
if i'm using rest directly if i'm using
an api it doesn't matter
all of these things
are talking to the azure resource
manager
there's no other route in and that's
super powerful because when i think of
features like
policy
when i think of features like
authorization
these are applying at the azure resource
manager level so there is no working
around these i can't bypass a policy or
bypass permissions
they are enforced at the azure resource
manager and everything goes through
these
now we often talk about the portal i've
shown the portal a couple of times and
if we look at it the portal is very nice
because it's super intuitive
hey i'm going over here i can go home i
can quickly see some core types of
resource like those subscriptions and
management groups
i have this little favorites bar down
the side to see frequent types of
resources
and i can create resources from here as
well and it's very powerful
but the challenge is the portal
clicking buttons
is really not very scalable
trying to create things through the
portal how do i make sure i've done it
the same way across four different
environments
how do i create 20 of something in an
efficient manner click click click click
it's really not
so when i think about how we want to
provision things what we actually want
to do and what arm enables
is behind the scenes in azure everything
is stored as a json
this is a particular notation format to
describe
what is the state of the resource
and what i can do is well i can actually
create
a json file
i can create using json
what i want to deploy and it's something
we call declarative
what that means is i'm not telling it
how to do something
i'm telling what i want the end state to
be
and i can send this json template
through arm
and it will make it so
now if those resources already exist
that match my description in the
template doesn't have to do anything
maybe i change something
or it will go and change the resource to
make it match the template so the idea
of these json arm templates is very
powerful as a declarative way
to provision resources when i think
about hey i want to deploy things i want
to do it in a very consistent manner
we want to use these json arm templates
i can actually see that if i go back for
a
second
and we look at our resource that network
interface card
we'll see there's this idea of exporting
a template
this will show me the json
that would be required to create this
here i can see the idea of well what is
it doing
i can see various parameters
then the resource itself is the bit we
care about it's creating a resource of
type well it's the microsoft.network
resource provider
of type network interface
then it just has various attributes a
name a location the tags it has various
properties
so i could take that
and essentially recreate it using that
json file
so arm provides us that ability to use
that declarative technology now there is
a new one available as well you might
also hear the idea of bicep
so bicep is a more human friendly
language
and when i use a bicep file it actually
gets
transpiled into a json file behind the
scenes we don't see that happening
but if you see the term bicep realize
bicep is just another declarative
technology but it's more human friendly
than json which really isn't that
friendly for us to use as humans
so any resource i have can be defined
using an arm json template
and again because it's declarative i can
run this as many times as i want and
create a storage account and i have it
defined as a locally resilient storage
account i could change it to grs
geo-redundant and it would go and change
it
in there so that's some of the big
powers but think about azure resource
manager
is the management and deployment
construct for azure it's that control
plane through which all of our
interactions go doesn't matter what
tooling we're using
it's going through there that's where
policy and authorization is enforced and
if i want to provision resources i did i
want to use arm json templates or maybe
i use bicep which gets transpiled into
an arm json template